                            Assignment-StaticKeyboard

Q.1- Why do we need static keyword in java Explain with an example?
Ans- The most important reason why static keywords are heavily used in Java is to efficiently manage memory. Generally, if you want to access variables or methods inside a class, you first need to create an instance or object of that class. However, there might be situations where you want to access only a couple of methods or variables of a class and you don’t want to create a new instance for that class just for accessing these members. This is where you can use the static keyword in Java.

Q.2- What is class loading and how does the java program actually executes?
Ans- The Java Virtual Machine dynamically loads, links and initializes classes and interfaces. Loading is the process of finding the binary representation of a class or interface type with a particular name and creating a class or interface from that binary representation.The Java ClassLoader is a part of the Java Runtime Environment that dynamically loads Java classes into the Java Virtual Machine. 

The class files generated by the compiler are independent of the machine or the OS, which allows them to be run on any system. To run, the main class file (the class that contains the method main) is passed to the JVM and then goes through three main stages before the final machine code is executed. These stages are:
These states do include:
ClassLoader
Bytecode Verifier
Just-In-Time Compiler

After the bytecode successfully loads, the Java interpreter creates an instance of the JVM that allows the Java program to be executed natively on the underlying machine.

Q.3- Can we mark a local variable as static
Ans- No a local variable cant be Static.In Java, a static variable is a class variable (for whole class). So if we have static local variable (a variable with scope limited to function), it violates the purpose of static. Hence compiler does not allow static local variable. 

Q.4- Why is the static block executed before the main method in java ?
Ans- When a particular class is executed, The java virtual machine (JVM) performs two actions during the runtime. They are as:
a.At first, the class is loaded into the memory, that is, JVM loads the dot class file (in byte code) into the memory.
b.During the dot class file loading into memory, the static block is been executed. After the loading of the dot class file, the main method is been called for execution. Therefore, the static block is executed before the main method.
 
Q.5- Why is a static method also called a class method?
Ans- A static method is a method that belongs to a class rather than an instance of a class. This means you can call a static method without creating an object of the class. Static methods are sometimes called class methods.
Static methods are the methods in Java that can be called without creating an object of class.

Q.6- What is the use of static blocks in java?
Ans- Static block in java is used for changing the default value of static variables, initializing static variables of the class, write a set of codes that you want to execute during the class loading in memory.

Q.7- Difference between Static and Instance variables
Ans- Instance variables are created when an object is created with the use of the keyword 'new' and destroyed when the object is destroyed. Static variables are created when the program starts and destroyed when the program stops. Instance variables can be accessed directly by calling the variable name inside the class.

Static method means which will exist as a single copy for a class. But instance methods exist as multiple copies depending on the number of instances created for that class. Static methods can be invoked by using class reference. Instance or non static methods are invoked by using object reference.

Q.8- Difference between static and non static members
Ans- a.Static variables can be accessed using class name but Non static variables can be accessed using instance of a class
b.Static variables can be accessed by static and non static methods but Non static variables cannot be accessed inside a static method.
c.Static variables reduce the amount of memory used by a program. Non static variables do not reduce the amount of memory used by a program
d.Static variables are shared among all instances of a class. Non static variables are specific to that instance of a class.