               Assignment-Variables and Data types

Q.1- What is statically typed and Dynamically typed programming Language?
Ans- Statically typed: Programming languages are referred to as "Static typed" if the memory of the variable is provided at the time of compilation.
For instance, C, C++, and Java

Dynamically typed: Programming languages are said to as "dynamically typed" if the memory for the variable is provided at the time of execution.
Like Python, PHP, and JavaScrip

Q.2- What is the variable in java?
Ans- A variable is the name of a memory-allocated reserved area.A variable is a container which holds the value while the Java program is executed. A variable is assigned with a data type.
Variable is a name of memory location.  It may be thought of as the name of a memory location, in other words.While the Java programme is running, the value is held in a container.To identify the storage location, each variable needs to have a special name.

Syntax for declaring a variable:
Type variable_name = value;

Q.3- How to assign a value to variable?
Ans- There are two ways to declare a variable in Java. The first method is to assign the initial value to the variable. The second method declares variable without initial value.
Declare a Variable with Initial Value: 
    Data_type variable_name = value;  

Declare a Variable without Initial Value:
    Data_type variable_name;  

We assign a value to a variable with the help of the assignment operator "=." It always works from right to left. 

Q.4- What are Primitive Data types in java?
Ans- primitive data types are a set of basic data types from which all other data types are constructed.Primitive data structure is the data structure that allows you to store only single data type values
In Java language, primitive data types are the building blocks of data manipulation. These are the most basic data types available in Java language.
Primitive data types - includes byte , short , int , long , float , double , boolean and char.

Q.5- What the Identifiers in java?
Ans- An identifier is a name given to a package, class, interface, method, or variable. All identifiers 
must have different names.
In Java, there are a few points to remember while dealing with identifiers :
Rule 1 − All identifiers should begin with a letter (A to Z or a to z), $ and _ and must be 
unique.
Rule 2 − After the first character/letter, identifiers can have any combination of characters.
Rule 3 − A keyword cannot be used as an identifier.
Rule 4 − The identifiers are case-sensitive.
Rule 5 – Whitespaces are not permitted.

Q.6- List the Operators in java?
Ans- Arithmetic Operators.
     Assignment Operators.
     Logical Operators.
     Relational Operators.
     Unary Operators.
     Bitwise Operators.
     Ternary Operators.
     Shift Operators.

Q.7- Explain about Increment and Decrement operators  and give an examples?
Ans- Increment Operators are the unary operators used to increment or add 1 to the operand value. The Increment operand is denoted by the double plus symbol (++). It has two types, Pre Increment and Post Increment Operators.
The pre-increment operator is used to increase the original value of the operand by 1 before assigning it to the expression.ex-X = ++A; 
The post-increment operator is used to increment the original value of the operand by 1 after assigning it to the expression. X = A++;

Decrement Operator is the unary operator, which is used to decrease the original value of the operand by 1. The decrement operator is represented as the double minus symbol (--). It has two types, Pre Decrement and Post Decrement operators.
The Pre Decrement Operator decreases the operand value by 1 before assigning it to the mathematical expression. In other words, the original value of the operand is first decreases, and then a new value is assigned to the other variable.B = --A; 
Post decrement operator is used to decrease the original value of the operand by 1 after assigning to the expression. B = A--;